hello I'm Lewis for Jones welcome to the
program Washington says it paused a
shipment of bombs to Israel last week
over fears they might be used in an
assault on Rafa more than a million
Palestinian refugees are Sheltering in
the city in the south of Gaza Israel
says it will deepen its attacks on Rafa
until Hamas is eliminated or the first
of the remaining hostages are released
the defense minister said Israel was
ready to make compromises to secure
their return but insisted that Hamas
only responded to force Israel has sent
a delegation to Cairo to resume
negotiations and Hamas says the talks
will be the last chance for hostage
release Israeli forces went into raffer
on Monday night in defiance of
international pressure seizing the
border crossing with Egypt the UN
Secretary General Antonio GES has warned
that a full-scale assault on Rafa would
cause a humanitarian nightmare qatar's
Ministry of Foreign Affairs has called
for international intervention to
prevent the city from being
invaded live now to Jerusalem and our
correspondent yolan Nell is there hi
yolan just bring us up to date with the
latest well when it comes to this uh us
shipment that's been paed that's really
getting a lot of attention in the
Israeli media this morning uh this is a
senior us Administration official who's
been speaking to journalists on
condition of anonymity really because
this is such a sensitive subject and
it's understood that this shipment that
was stop last week included uh some of
the 2,000 bombs really big bombs uh the
US has been sending over to Israel it's
the first time that we've heard that a
shipment has been stopped like this
certainly uh since the start of the War
uh 7 months ago the US has publicly been
restating its Ironclad support of Israel
but we know there have been these uh
constant worries from the Biden
Administration that Israel could go for
a fullscale assault of Rafa against its
um advice um because the US has really
been pushing for much more sort of
limited options to go after Hamas in
gaza's Southernmost city and the concern
would have been really that the the size
of some of these bombs could have had a
devastating effect in a place that is
just so crowded with displaced
people issue of Aid what is the latest
with Crossings and getting
in so we've had uh in the past day or so
humanitarian agencies the UN coming out
uh really expressing concerns about what
could happen as a result of Israel's uh
military offensive in Rafa which it says
is limited but it has resulted in the
Rafa Crossing uh between Gaza and Egypt
uh being completely closed for supplies
coming in there and this after the Kem
Shalom Crossing was closed on Sunday
because of what Israel said was Hamas
rocket Fire coming from Rafa which
killed at least for Israeli soldiers and
wounded others who were close to that
Crossing and now the White House had
said that President Biden had
specifically asked for that Crossing uh
to be reopened it's a main artery for
Aid that goes into Gaza still and we're
hearing that that is now a reopening for
the security checks that Israel demands
are carried out um before the the
lorries uh could pass into Gaza uh
carrying their desperately needed Aid
and your land just last where are we on
the ceasefire
talks we've not had any update on the
ceasefire talks but we know that in
Cairo you now have alongside the
Egyptian and Kat mediators and the US
team that's there as well Hamas and
Israel um with their delegations for
these indirect talks now Israel has
really sent a lower level uh negotiating
team with quite a limited mandate
basically it says to see if uh it can
get anything out of these talks we were
told that there were some specific areas
of difference um after Hamas came out
saying it accepted this uh three-stage
plan for ceasefire and hostage release I
mean some of the differences seem quite
easy to overcome uh there things like um
specifying that um the first group of
Israeli hostages some 33 of them that
are released should all be those who are
still alive we know that there are also
some dead bodies more than 30 um that
are held in Gaza um on top of that
things like wanting um Israeli women
soldiers to be returned home more
quickly than this plan laid out but the
really fundamental difference remains
there about you know the plan for an end
to the war because ultimately in the
document that has been seen uh by
journalists that's been leaked out to
the media it talks about um a return to
sustainable calm a permanent um halt
cessation of military and hostile acts
and that is really problematic for
Israel it went into this war saying that
it wanted to dismantle Hamas in Gaza
that it wanted to stop it having any
military capabilities and stop it coming
back to Power and in the background here
you have this problem that there has
been no real post-war vision for Gaza um
that has been agreed uh for something
that is viable as an alternative to
Hamas being inow there um you know other
Palestinian bodies coming in and at the
moment that really looks like the very
very difficult part um of the ceasefire
negotiations for the mediators to try to
overcome yolan thank you for that